Area perimeter intensity ImageJ script
Description
The script is run in ImageJ (New>Script > Open > "path of script"). User selects the location containing no other files than acquired image files. The script works on Zeiss (.czi) files, but might work on other image file types. The images are automaticaly opened and the user is asked for the number of cells to be selected. Each selected cell is individually duplicated. On each duplicate the parameters of phalloidin channel such as intensity value, area etc are measured based on GLOBAL thresholding within duplication area. On each duplicate the parameters of pTyr channel such as intensity value, area etc are measured based on LOCAL thresholding within duplication area. The script runs all the images in the folder. The script creates a folder "processed" which contains the composite image with marked global and local thresholding of each selected cell in the image. The script produces a results.txt file, that contains all the measured parameters, each row representing one selection with variables separated by ;. The results.txt file can be opened and analysed further in programs such as MS Excel. The user can compare the selections marked in composite image with the values in the results.txt as they are marked with unique matching identifiers based on original image file names.

Paper:
Šuštar V, Vainio M, Mattila PK. Visualization and quantitative analysis of the actin cytoskeleton upon B cell activation. Methods in Molecular Biology. 2018;1707:243-257. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4939-7474-0_18

Abstract
The formation of the immunological synapse upon B cell activation critically depends on the rearrangement of the submembranous actin cytoskeleton. Polymerization of actin monomers into filaments provides the force required for B cell spreading on the antigen-presenting cell (APC). Interestingly, the actin network also participates in cellular signaling at multiple levels. Fluorescence microscopy plays a critical role in furthering our understanding of the various functions of the cytoskeleton, and has become an important tool in the studies on B cell activation. The actin cytoskeleton can be tracked in live cells with various fluorescent probes binding to actin, or in fixed cells typically with phalloidin staining. Here, we present the usage of TIRF microscopy and an image analysis workflow for studying the overall density and organization of the actin network upon B cell spreading on antigen-coated glass, a widely used model system for the formation of the immunological synapse.

PubMed
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29388113
